Updating Tensile document (#1453)
ROCmSoftwarePlatform/Tensile: tuning_docs/tensile_tuning.tex

}

\textbf{BenchmarkForkParameters, JoinParameters, BenchmarkJoinParameters} are obsolete items in this section. However, they still should be in this section.

\subsubsection{Library Logic}
\label{sec:LibraryLogic}

> The Library Logic is a collction of one or more yaml files containing benchmarking output results (usually one per gfx architecture, per benchmark problem) created by Tensile and is the final product of the benchmarking and tuning process (dropped in 3\_LibraryLogic). It consists of kernel meta-data (called the solution), mappings to problems that it can solve and performance data at particular sizes. If we skip this section in the configuration file, the library logic file (and 3\_LibraryLogic dir) will not be generated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Library Logic is a collection of one or more yaml files containing benchmarking output results (usually one per gfx architecture, per benchmark problem) created by Tensile and is the final product of the benchmarking and tuning process (dropped in 3\_LibraryLogic). It consists of a list of solutions, a list of problem sizes, and a mapping from each problem size to the fastest solution. If we skip this section in the configuration file, the library logic file (and 3\_LibraryLogic dir) will not be generated.
```

Reviewer: The information here wasn't really correct imo. I think this is more accurate to what a Library Logic file actually contains.

  ScheduleName: vega20
\end{minted}
\noindent
This describes the target platform for which the final library is targeted and will generate a corresponding \hyperref[sec:logicFile]{logic file} for this specific platform and device specification. \newline

\noindent
There are three main parts to this and they are mostly self describing. The ArchitectureName specifies the graphics architecture and the number ``906'' is the instruction set ``ISA'' id. The schedule is the GPU codename. The Device list is the specific device ids. Other example target platform specifications and devices are listed in \hyperref[sec:appendixD]{Appendix D}. \newline

\noindent \textbf{Generated Logic File Example:}

\noindent

> Notice here that the top of this logic file contains the same information as described in the LibraryLogic section of the configuration file. The content of this file will be discussed in section \ref{sec:logicFile} \newline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that the top of this logic file contains the same information as described in the LibraryLogic section of the configuration file. The content of this file will be discussed in section \ref{sec:logicFile} \newline
```

- [Device 66a0, Device 66a1, Device 66a7]
\end{minted}

\subsubsection{LibraryClient}
\label{sec:LibClient}

\noindent

> As of now, we do not need to have this section for the tuning process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LibraryClient section is optional. Including it in the tuning config will build the Tensile library from the library logic files after tuning finishes and then runs the fastest solution for each tuned size.
```

Reviewer: Might as well explain what it actually does.

\subsubsection{The Tensile Logic File}
\label{sec:logicFile}

\noindent

> The results of the tuning generate a Tensile logic file (or multiple files) in build*/3\_LibraryLogic. This file is used to generate the final Tensile library using the TensileCreateLibrary application. This is a separate application (still in the Tensile repo) and the library logic file generated by the Tensile is the input file to TensileCreateLibrary application. This application will be discussed in section \ref{sec:TensileLib}. The logic file contains the library and kernel specification as well as the size mappings. Here is a sample logic file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result of tuning is the Tensile library logic file(s) in build*/3\_LibraryLogic. These file are used to generate the final Tensile library using the TensileCreateLibrary application. This is a separate application (still in the Tensile repo) which takes the library logic files generated by Tensile as input. This application will be discussed further in section \ref{sec:TensileLib}. Here is a sample logic file:
```

Reviewer: Cleaning up a bit and removing redundant information.

	- [kernel index, measured efficiency].
\end{center}

\noindent

> Note that as of now, rocBLAS does not hold the ld information in the final library, even if we define them in the configure file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that as of now, rocBLAS does not store the leading dimension information in the final library, even if we define them in the configure file.
```

\bigskip
\noindent

\textbf{\large{Naming convention:}}

\label{sec:naming}
\noindent
Tensile generates one library logic file for each problem type. They are named as follows:
\begin{center}
	$\langle architecture\_name \rangle \_\langle Contraction\_Type \rangle\_ \langle Data\_Type \rangle$
\end{center}

\noindent
$\langle architecture\_name \rangle$ refers the GPU architecture, for example for Vega 20, the architecture name is vega20. $\langle Contraction\_Type \rangle$ refers to the Einstein tensor convention as discussed in section \ref{sec:einstein}. $\langle Data\_Type \rangle$ is based on the ProblemType in the configuration file. For example, SB refers to a Batched Single precision DataType. HSS\_BH means Half-precision for DataType (A/B), Single-precision for DestDataType (C/D), and Single-precision for ComputeDataType. Notice also that the exact same naming convention will be used in the rocBLAS library.

\section{Integrating new libraries in rocBLAS}
Once we have library logic files for new sizes, we need to merge and update rocBLAS libraries. This a two-fold process: 
\begin{itemize}

> \item First, we need to confirm that the new logic file is generating the correct results and the performance of the new libraries is more that the old library. We use rocBLAS-bench tool for this part. See the next section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\item First, we need to confirm that the new logic file is generating the correct results and the performance of the new library is better than the old library. We use rocBLAS-bench tool for this part. See the next section. 
```

\item Merging the new logic file into rocBLAS using the merge tool (merge.py in Tensile). See section \ref{sec:merging}.
\end{itemize}

\subsection{rocBLAS-bench tool}

\label{sec:bench}

\noindent
rocBLAS-bench is a tool used to perform benchmarks on the problem sizes which are being measured and to verify the correctness of the new libraries. While it is designed to measure performance of the full set of rocBLAS library functions, our interest is in the level 3 gemm functions which---in rocBLAS---are calls into the Tensile library. 

The git repository for rocBLAS is found at \url{https://github.com/ROCmSoftwarePlatform/rocBLAS}. Either the develop or master branch version may be used for testing.

\begin{lstlisting}[language=bash]
$ git clone -b master|develop https://github.com/ROCmSoftwarePlatform/rocBLAS.git
\end{lstlisting}

> To use rocBLAS-bench we need to install it locally. The library can be installed using the included installation script (the installation may last quite some time.):

Reviewer: Not strictly true; the rocblas-bench (and other clients) can be built using the installed version of rocBLAS without having to first rebuild rocBLAS. I think the option is --clients-only.

\begin{lstlisting}[language=bash]
$ cd rocBLAS
$ ./install.sh -h
$ ./install.sh -d -c -a <architecture> --cmake_install
\end{lstlisting}

\noindent

> where the c option builds the client applications, which includes rocBLAS-bench, and the d option will build and install the dependencies (the d option only need to be included once on each system that rocBLAS is being build). -a refers to the GPU architecture. For example: gfx906:xnack-, gfx908:xnack-. Without this flag, rocBLAS installs/tunes for all architectures, and installation lasts even longer. To skip rocBLAS Tensile use -n flag (You cannot benchmark GEMM then). The cmake flag allows the rocBLAS to install cmake if it is older than required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where the c option builds the client applications, which includes rocBLAS-bench, the d option builds and installs the dependencies (only needed to be included once on each system that rocBLAS is being built), and the a option specifies the GPU architecture e.g. gfx906:xnack-, gfx908:xnack-. Without this flag, rocBLAS installs for all architectures, and installation lasts even longer. The cmake flag allows the rocBLAS to install cmake if it is older than required.
```

Reviewer: Cleaning up a bit. Removed the bit about the -n flag; I think this just adds confusion since this is a Tensile doc and you would only use rocBLAS if it was built with Tensile.

\noindent
Executing the test for a single problem size is done using familiar blas parameters:

\begin{lstlisting}[language=bash]
rocBLAS$ cd build/release/client/staging
rocBLAS/build/release/client/staging$ ./rocBLAS-bench -h
rocBLAS/build/release/client/staging$ ./rocBLAS-bench -f gemm -r f32_r --transposeA N --transposeB T -m 1001 -n 1536 -k 64 --alpha 1.0 --lda 1001 --ldb 1536 --beta 0.0 --ldc 1001 -i 10
rocBLAS/build/release/client/staging$ ./rocBLAS-bench -f gemm_ex --transposeA N --transposeB T -m 1024 -n 1024-k 1024 --a_type h --lda 2048 --b_type h --ldb 2048 --beta 1 --c_type s --ldc 2048 --d_type s --ldd 2048 --compute_type s -v 1 --iters 10 --cold_iters 2
\end{lstlisting}

\noindent
Here, the i/iters option is the number of iterations of the gemm call. See the help output for other flags. Because there is a latency in loading the Tensile library which rocBLAS links to, for testing, it is recommended to use rocBLAS-bench with the batch call. The batch call takes a yaml file with a list of problem sizes. An example yaml file contents is shown below (problem-size.yaml).

\begin{minted}[
gobble=0,breaklines,
frame=single,
linenos
]{yaml}

> - { rocBLAS_function: "rocBLAS_sgemm", transA: 'N', transB: 'N', M: 1024, N: 1264, K: 345, lda: 1024, ldb: 345, ldc: 1024, cold_iters: 2, iters: 10 }

Reviewer: I'm not sure if these are case sensitive or not. Could you double check that?

- { rocBLAS_function: "rocBLAS_sgemm", transA: 'N', transB: 'N', M: 1025, N: 1064, K: 148, lda: 1025, ldb: 148, ldc: 1025, cold_iters: 2, iters: 10 }
- { rocBLAS_function: "rocBLAS_gemm_ex", transA: "N", transB: "T", a_type: f16_r, b_type: f16_r, c_type: f32_r, d_type: f32_r, compute_type: f32_r, M:    4096, N:    4096, K:    1024, lda:   8192, ldb:   8192, ldc:   8192,  ldd:   8192, cold_iters: 2, iters: 10, beta: 1 }
- {rocBLAS_function: rocBLAS_gemm_ex, transA: N, transB: T, a_type: f16_r, b_type: f16_r, c_type: f32_r, d_type: f32_r, compute_type: f32_r, M: 1024, N: 1024, K: 1024, lda: 8192, ldb: 8192, ldc: 8192, ldd: 8192, alpha: 1, beta: 1, iters: 1, cold_iters: 0, norm_check: 1}

\end{minted}

\noindent
This can be executed in rocBLAS-bench as follows:

\begin{lstlisting}[language=bash]

> ./rocBLAS-bench --yaml problem-sizes.yaml

Reviewer: This definitely _is_ case sensitive. I'm guessing a find and replace got out of hand?

Depending on TensileCreateLibrary state for `MergeFiles', the code object libraries may be linked together into monolithic libraries for each architecture. This only affects the number of library files in the final result of TensileCreateLibrary. Again, the .co and .hsaco files have basically the same format; however, the extensions allow distinguishing between ASM and SOURCE kernels.

\subsection{Using the Tensile Library For Testing}
\label{sec:TensileCreateLib}

> The Tensile library's independence from rocBLAS enables us to build and use the libraries as part of a separate workflow. This avoids much of the long wait times related to the rocBLAS build. The rocBLAS-bench application can reference a library by setting the environment variable rocBLAS\_TENSILE\_LIBPATH. When this variable is set to a specific version of the Tensile library, rocBLAS will load that version at runtime; otherwise, the prebuilt version of the library will be loaded. This means that only one version of rocBLAS needs to be built for testing when comparing the results of a new version of the Tensile library with a reference version. When using this method of referencing a library, it is important that the same version of TensileCreateLibrary from the rocBLAS build is used to create the library; otherwise, there could be conflicts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Tensile library's independence from rocBLAS enables us to build and use the libraries as part of a separate workflow. This avoids much of the long wait times related to the rocBLAS build. The rocBLAS-bench application can reference a library by setting the environment variable ROCBLAS\_TENSILE\_LIBPATH. When this variable is set to a specific version of the Tensile library, rocBLAS will load that version at runtime; otherwise, the prebuilt version of the library will be loaded. This means that only one version of rocBLAS needs to be built for testing when comparing the results of a new version of the Tensile library with a reference version. When using this method of referencing a library, it is important that the same version of TensileCreateLibrary from the rocBLAS build is used to create the library; otherwise, there could be conflicts.
```

Reviewer: More find and replace.

\subsubsection{Example Usage}

> Once the library is generated, it can be used in rocBLAS by setting the environment variable rocBLAS\_TENSILE\_LIBPATH. Execute rocBLAS-bench as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the library is generated, it can be used in rocBLAS by setting the environment variable ROCBLAS\_TENSILE\_LIBPATH. Execute rocBLAS-bench as follows:
```

\begin{lstlisting}[language=bash]

> rocBLAS_TENSILE_LIBPATH=path/to/drop/new/tensile/library ./rocBLAS-bench --yaml problem_sizes.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROCBLAS_TENSILE_LIBPATH=path/to/drop/new/tensile/library ./rocblas-bench --yaml problem_sizes.yaml
```

\subsection{rocBLAS Logging Information}

rocBLAS logging provides information about the rocBLAS functions which get called during an application as well as the size information of the calls. This logging is enabled by setting the rocBLAS\_LAYER environment variable. The two settings that get used as input into the tuning automation are rocBLAS\_LAYER=2 and rocBLAS\_LAYER=4; these each produce output about the rocBLAS calls in different formats.

\begin{lstlisting}[language=bash,breaklines=true]
rocBLAS_LAYER=2

# generates output in the form of

> rocBLAS-bench -f gemm -r s --transposeA N --transposeB N -m 1024 -n 1024 -k 1024 --beta 0.0 --alpha 1.0 --lda 1024 --ldb 1024 --ldc 1024

Reviewer: More find and replace here; I'm too lazy to tag them all

\begin{lstlisting}[language=bash,breaklines=true]

> ./tuning/scripts/provision_tuning.sh tensile_tuning logs/inception-rocBLAS-configs_unique.log tf_inception.yaml vega20

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./tuning/scripts/provision_tuning.sh tensile_tuning logs/inception-rocblas-configs_unique.log tf_inception.yaml vega20
```
